everyone Lazlo Montgomery here with
another China history podcast today
we're covering part 7 of our Hong Kong
history overview we're gonna pick up in
the years leading up to the Japanese
invasion in the Battle of Hong Kong then
we'll look at the three years and eight
months of the Japanese occupation I'm
gonna skip over Sir Andrew Caldecott
19th governor of Hong Kong and the one
serving the shortest time in office
December 1935 to October 1937 he was
succeeded by Sir Geoffrey Northcote who
by the time of his tenure as governor
was already enjoying terrible health he
was hardly in the physical and mental
state to deal with the historic events
that were breaking out all around so not
much that can be said about Hong Kong's
20th governor
it was during North coates time that the
Marco Polo Bridge incident went down
july 7th 1937 this was the incident that
sparked the whole Japanese invasion of
China they had already made themselves
at home in Manchuria since the Mukden
incident or Joey ba as it's known in
China but now with this latest incident
at the Marco Polo Bridge in Beijing
Japan is going to execute their very
well laid plans concerning an invasion
of China and getting access to all those
natural resources this made things very
uneasy in Hong Kong the closer the
fighting got to Canton to Guangzhou the
more tense it became in Hong Kong once
word got out that something like 30,000
Japanese troops had landed in daya Bay
things got more intense than ever
daya Bay is about 40 miles away from
Hong Kong and it's today home to the
nuclear power plant that provides
electricity to Hong Kong after a couple
of weeks of intense fighting Canton was
taken Japan had been on a roll since the
Meiji Restoration in 1868
the coming-out party was the
japanese war ending in 1895 then there
was the russo-japanese war of 1905 then
Japan annexed Korea in 1910 reinsure Kai
and the twenty-one demands 1919 and Duan
she raised nishihara loans that same
year then as I mentioned the McDonagh
incident
9:18 1931 in now july 7th 1937 the Marco
Polo Bridge incident we've heard all
this stuff before in previous podcasts
those years of aggression by Japan have
done immense damage to the relations
between China and Japan two thousand
years of good and friendly relations
undone by these seemingly unforgettable
55 years of violence the Japanese in
their relentless pursuit of achieving
their Greater East Asia co-prosperity
sphere were never able to penetrate
deeply into the heart of China their
area of control and influence was always
close to the coast and coalesced around
a few of the major cities of the
Interior this is why in October of 1938
Zhang Kai shek will take the capital at
Nanjing and move it all the way out west
to Chongqing where it was not easy for
the Japanese to get to without spreading
themselves out too thin 1937 is going to
be a bloody year filled with some of the
worst horrors that the 20th century had
to dish up once the Battle of Shanghai
is fought between August and December
1937 the second sino-japanese war is
often running with a bang a quarter
million casualties resulted from the
bombing and fighting that went on during
those few months the rape of Nanjing
soon after follows the fall of Shanghai
not since the bloodletting that went on
during the Taiping rebellion had China
seen such horrors by October the
following year 1938 the Japanese begin
to encircle Canton British did their
best to make
some semblance of calm and the storms
shaking the Far East they declared Hong
Kong neutral in September 1938 it took
measures to make everything appear
normal weapons were controlled and
measures were taken to show the Japanese
that Britain was tough with the locals
and prohibited them from harming
themselves or taking any anti Japanese
actions that might provoke an incident
this included openly sending relief
supplies to China via Hong Kong this is
still a year before Hitler would invade
Poland so the British were continuing to
be very careful to avoid any
confrontations in the Orient a two-front
war was the last thing on their mind
although the British allowed the arms to
be shipped and smuggled they tried to
make it look to the Japanese at least
that they were cracking down on these
weapons shipments to China via Hong Kong
by this time refugees started flowing
into Hong Kong by the rate of as many as
5,000 a day
all attempts to process so many
immigrants in an orderly fashion were
fruitless the population of Hong Kong
around this time was about a million
Hong Kong will see as much as a 50%
increase in population but as many as
half a million refugees stream into the
colony from across the border seeking
safety from the marauding Japanese this
time along with refugees with nothing
except a shirt on their back came
Industrialists and entrepreneurs who
gave up on China and brought their world
to Hong Kong some brought equipment and
whole factories to Hong Kong where it
was considered safer and still more
conducive to carrying out business
although these manufacturers and
entrepreneurs face similar hardships in
Hong Kong under the Japanese yoke once
the war ended in Hong Kong saw a boom in
the economy and a speedy recovery it was
partially thanks to many of these
entrepreneurial refugees who escaped
China and tried their luck in Hong Kong
they would help prime the pump for the
post-war boom to the Hong Kong
manufacturing base the Japanese military
tried to closed out all the ports and
and they were very successful in
carrying this out but Hong Kong being an
international port and British and all
was not affected the Japanese didn't
want to do that just yet the time wasn't
right
Hitler hadn't invaded Poland yet no war
had been declared between anyone yet
so Hong Kong was spared while China's
other ports were locked down and
controlled by the Japanese Navy so Hong
Kong became very important suddenly as
the one single door or window from which
China could receive arms and weapons as
well as other material critical to
China's defence against Japan 60,000
tons per month of weapons made their way
from the port of Hong Kong to the
Chinese army the good old case er
Kowloon Canton railway served as the
transport link for this arms trade
between Hong Kong and China with Japan's
effectiveness at shutting China down
1937 1938 almost half of China's foreign
trade shifted down to Hong Kong in the
colony once again is it with later on
after the war played one of the chief
roles in its history as China's trade
and commercial window to the outside
world whenever things got out of hand
and China and the economy needed a safe
haven to carry out trade and commerce
there was always Hong Kong time and
again Hong Kong would play this role
even the Bank of China and the
communications Bank of China moved their
headquarters temporarily to Hong Kong
during the war in effect Hong Kong
became for a short while China's central
banker everyone was starting to take
sides the US French and Portuguese for
all their own reasons didn't resist
Japan's blockade and bellicose warnings
the British were standing firm but were
extremely wary to start a war on two
fronts as by this time war with Nazi
Germany was a foregone conclusion
September 1939 Hitler invades Poland
June 1940 France is done in
is really starting to make a lot of
noise about Hong Kong being used as the
main conduit for arms of material coming
through from the outside world so just
when Japan was turning their sights on
Hong Kong to put an end to the flow of
arms into China the 717 mile-long Burma
Road was just finishing up and that
became the replacement arms conduit to
China after Hong Kong fell and although
it's Japan running the show it meant an
end to regular arms shipments a very
brisk smuggling business began to be
carried out thanks to Hong Kong is
unique watery geography all kinds of
necessities began to make their way to
China via the Pearl River estuary
October 1938 Canton or Guangzhou fell to
Japanese forces this is when the tide of
refugees flooding into Hong Kong hit a
crescendo you can't imagine what it was
like those times late 1930s could
Captain Charles Elliott or his nemesis
Lord Palmerston ever have envisioned the
scenes of the hundreds of thousands of
Chinese fleeing southern Guangdong for
their lives to the safety of this one
time barren rock with hardly a house
upon it Britain was in no position to
swagger in front of the Japanese 1938-39
for tea everyone was at their mercy
in March of 1939 Japan had bombed
Shenyang and some bombs had fallen on
the Hong Kong side of the river that
served as the border between China and
Hong Kong a bridge in a railway station
in the New Territories was hit Churchill
had said quote if Japan goes to war with
us there is not the slightest chance of
holding Hong Kong or relieving it it is
most unwise to increase the loss we
shall suffer there instead of increasing
the garrison it ought to be reduced to a
symbolic scale any trouble arising there
must avoid frittering away our resources
on untenable positions
I wish we had fewer troops there
but to move any would be noticeable and
dangerous September 1941 a new governor
arrives in Hong Kong and this one gets
to enjoy the dubious honor of being the
colony's wartime governor he is Hong
Kong's 21st governor Sir mark Aitchison
young he came on board just in time to
join the discussions on how to defend
the colony and manage the whole swollen
Chinese population in Hong Kong at such
a time as this as the second half of
1941 rolled around the head office back
in London had their hands full how to
save Hong Kong was not the topmost
priority and of the two British colonies
of Singapore in Hong Kong Singapore was
considered the more strategically
important to hold on to so the thinking
was Hong Kong drew the short straw and
contained inside all the words of
encouragement was an admission that it
was a foregone conclusion that Hong Kong
was going to be lost to Japan the
strategy was for the remaining vestiges
of a military in Hong Kong to do as much
with as little as possible they were to
do whatever they could to resist the
Japanese when the invasion came and it
was coming they all knew this they were
to hold them back for as long as humanly
possible so that all attempts to fortify
Singapore could be made Hong Kong was
basically on its own now no cavalry was
coming no naval flotilla was arriving
imminently to save the day or provide
reinforcements it was a relatively
unprotected hong kong against what was
at the time one of the strongest most
violent and efficient war machines on
earth they were coming straight at hong
kong but it wasn't like hong kong was
totally unprotected Hong Kong's quiet
longtime friend and our neighbor to the
north the nation of Canada yes the
nation that brought us mark rose well
mr. deshaun himself and of course dr.
Norman Bethune they sent some help two
regiments in fact they arrived
just in time in November 1941 the
Winnipeg Grenadier zand the Royal rifles
of Canada the man in charge of defending
Hong Kong against the Japanese army was
General Christopher M Maltby he had been
given this command in August 1941 his
nemesis for what was shaping up to be
the Battle of Hong Kong was lieutenant
general takashi Sakai who hailed from
the lovely town of Hiroshima Japan ok we
all know the story well Ray Harris is
going to be covering this in detail much
later on when the Magnificent
history of world war ii podcast begins
covering the war in the pacific for now
let's just say japan goes and bombs
Pearl Harbor on the morning of December
7th 1941 a day which FDR said would live
in infamy while Japanese bombers were
laying waste to much of the US Navy it
was on the afternoon of the next day in
Hong Kong and all those left to defend
Hong Kong against the onslaught were
already well into the fight which would
rage on for almost 18 days the Japanese
army just plowed through across the
border they marched right into Kowloon
and made it all the way to the harbor on
December 18th they boarded boats crossed
Hong Kong harbour and landed on the
other side on the north shore of Hong
Kong Island they landed somewhere around
where tai koo shing is today there were
about thirty forty thousand of them
facing off against this onslaught of
superbly trained well-armed and brave
Japanese soldiers were a grand total of
perhaps fourteen thousand British led
troops which included not only the
Canadian volunteers but Indian troops as
well the Royal Hong Kong regiment known
as the volunteers also joined in the
defense this homegrown militia group
went all the way back to 1854 they were
set up right after Governor John Bowring
arrived in office the forces in Hong
Kong at that time had been thinned out
quite a bit due to
crimean war going on too many troops
have been sent to the front leaving Hong
Kong a little exposed so this force was
set up to sort of fill the gap and now
they were facing their finest hour they
have 2200 of these volunteers and seven
infantry companies five artillery
batteries and five machine gun companies
they gave it their all everyone left
dealing with this mission impossible'
fought a great fight the two and a half
weeks of fighting were filled with
valiant acts of unrecorded bravery from
these warriors from Canada India and of
course from the British side general CM
multi did all he could but he was a
mouse fighting an elephant that he held
them off for seventeen and a half days
as an amazing feat in itself but in the
end the fight was simply way too
one-sided even with those in defense of
Hong Kong having the home-field
advantage in the end having just arrived
on the scene in August all Maltby had to
work with were troops not adequately
trained no real plan and a shortage of
arms and equipment on paper this was
going to be a turkey shoot there were
two main battles fought one was at one
night PhoneGap and the other in Stanley
one night wrong gap is a space on Hong
Kong Island where you could get from the
north end to the south end of the island
and vice versa this was of course back
then now you have the aberdeen tunnel
and a multitude of ways in various
distances to get from central to stanley
but back then wong died chong gap was
pretty much the only easy way to go from
north to south on Hong Kong Island the
Japanese although pinned down for a
while and one night wrong gap by the
Canadian troops were able to fan out
across mount Parker into Jardine's
lookout then the battle spread out to
the south of the island from repulse Bay
to Stanley
Churchill had said days after the attack
began quote we are all watching day by
day and
hour by hour your stubborn defense of
the port and fortress of Hong Kong you
guard a link between the Far East and
Europe long famous and world's
civilization we are sure that the
defense of Hong Kong against barbarous
and unprovoked attack will add a
glorious page to British annals although
they fought the good fight the defenders
of Hong Kong led by general Maltby in
the end had to wave the white flag the
surrender happened 71 years ago almost
to this very day and what became known
as Black Christmas December 25th 1941
and the period that followed the
occupation is known to Hong Kongers as
the Sanya and Ling bag again three years
and eight months around seven thousand
British soldiers civilians government
officials ended up getting sent to
internment camps and shun Shui PO
Stanley and elsewhere things got off on
the wrong foot at once just as
preparations were underway for the
British surrender on December 25th 1941
a bunch of allegedly drunken Japanese
soldiers forced their way into st.
Stephen's College / and Stanley it was
being used as a field hospital and many
of the soldiers wounded in the fighting
that had transpired the past couple
weeks were recovering there the Japanese
forced their way in and just butchered
everyone something like a hundred people
anyone wounded or disabled who couldn't
run and scatter fast enough were cut
down the nurses who were caught were all
savagely gang-raped this event was known
as the st. Stephen's College incident or
the st. Stephen's Massacre this was the
first high-profile example in Hong Kong
at the Japanese military's calling card
their brutality and inhumanity to their
fellow man and women to no statistics
that I could find but thousands of women
faced sexual harassment and rape on a
grand scale during these days and 1941
1942 and Lieutenant General Sakai
showing what a man of good taste he was
held the formal surrender at the
Peninsula Hotel on the third floor right
on Boxing Day no less December 26th
I recommend the peninsula for anyone
with the budget to stay there
the Japanese sure liked it they used
this five-star Grand Hotel as their
headquarters the man in charge for Japan
arrived on the scene in February 1942
this was general ren suki isogai ii the
man who came to the fore at this time
for the British in Hong Kong was
Franklin Charles Gibson he ultimately
became the face of the former colonial
government during the occupation
governor young had been sent elsewhere
and Gibson was left in charge of things
Gibson was sent to the Stanly internment
camp which is where he ended up spending
the war and it was Gibson who would play
a lead role right after the Japanese
surrendered on August 15 1945 he held
down the fort until Harcourt arrived
from Sydney but I'm getting way ahead of
myself and then the Japanese just moved
in and took over they took control of
everything that could be controlled the
police most of all they seized factories
and any useful manufacturing assets
propaganda posters started getting
pasted up everywhere slogans were
shouted out in the newspapers and radios
the basic line was Japan was great be
like us you know there was a lot of this
the press was heavily censored the
mouthpiece for the Japanese was the Hong
Kong News and the reporters were all
stringers and several reporters from the
South China Morning Post if any
publication wasn't pro Japanese and
their slant it was shut down the Hong
Kong dollar was outlawed and replaced by
a Japanese military again the exchange
rate was pegged at to Hong Kong dollars
to the military yen this was a old trick
that modern conquerors would do to grab
control of the local economy if he
controlled the currency he controlled
everything by October of
18:42 the exchange rate had inflated
four to one so it didn't take long at
all for the Hong Kong people to get
shafted with this new military currency
everyone had been forced to turn in
their legal tender Hong Kong dollars for
this funny money issued by the military
then the Japanese authorities took these
Hong Kong dollars and used them to
purchase and whatever it was they
required for the war effort in short
Japan totally mismanaged the Hong Kong
economy and all these attempts to mess
with the currency and replace Hong
Kong's banks with Japanese branches and
their banks just turned the whole
economy and financial system on its head
the dreaded Kempeitai or shen pink bay
were all over the place
these guys were modeled after the French
gendarmerie and served as the military
police of the Japanese war machine what
is there to say except that Japanese
lived up to their reputation as brutal
occupiers all kinds of measures
unsuccessful most were taken to play
down Chinese culture and education and
to promote Japanese culture instead the
name of the game was Japan ization there
were a lot of signature examples of this
streets were renamed Queens Road became
Mae Chidori the peninsula hotel was
changed to the Matsumoto the venerable
British retailer Lane Crawford was
renamed Matsuzaka yah after it was
forcibly taken over by order of the
Japanese military government
Matsuzaka is a big Japanese retailer
who's been around since 1611 in late
Crawford was founded in 1850 now in our
time they both operate and compete
side-by-side in Hong Kong the local
residents had a rough back then society
was filled with all kinds of new rules
that could get you killed or severely
inconvenienced if you didn't show full
and enthusiastic compliance don't wash
Patal and the bow lianca continued their
work aiding those in need during this
four
for a month period over 1300 days food
was always scarce people starved the
Japanese for all their famous efficiency
never got the food distribution thing
going smoothly there was always a
shortage and all the most important
staples had to be rationed rice was
rationed at eight and a half ounces per
day per person to alleviate the food
shortages the Japanese attempted to
empty Hong Kong out a little almost a
million people many of them the same
refugees who had fled to Hong Kong were
all sent back to the other side of the
border everything was done in the name
of the Greater East Asia co-prosperity
sphere the Japanese assured the Chinese
repeatedly that they were an integral
and important part of this whole new
thing no one had to sell China on the
idea of building some kind of totally
self-sufficient Far Eastern economic
trading bloc with military alliances and
all the necessary trappings if China was
part of such an organization for sure
they could stand up for themselves and
send all these Western imperialists and
colonialists packing and allow all the
people of the Far East to take control
of their own destiny
the only problem was Japan insisted on
being at the top of the pyramid and
there was the rub how could China say
yeah no problem to something like that
in Japan lording it over the Chinese at
the time when they were weak divided
broken there was simply no way that
after all that had happened in recent
memory going back to the twenty-one
demands that the Chinese were gonna look
the other way and willingly accept a
dominant Japan try as Japan might to
aggressively seize the hearts and minds
of the locals and push this whole Japan
ization program people lip-synched as
much as they could get away with and the
whole thing never really caught fire you
know how it is anywhere in the world no
one gives up their culture by force and
willingly adopts another without a fight
there was no small amount of organized
resistance
against the Japanese the Kempeitai were
as ruthless and efficient as their
Gestapo kindred spirits and stamping out
the opposition but as we know in our age
of terrorism today that this is a
never-ending battle and while you can
stop most of the resistance you can
never fully extinguish it
there were several organized resistance
groups the East River column were a
group of guerrilla fighters based in
Guangdong who provided endless
harassment of the Japanese army there
same with the Hong Kong Kowloon brigade
a band of 400 or so brothers in arms'
who were mostly based out near Sai Kong
in the New Territories but I guess the
most fabled band of them all was the
British Army aid group the Ying Jun
Fuquan their specialty was to operate
behind enemy lines gathering Intel and
providing covert assistance to British
and Allied prisoners of war in Hong Kong
and in southern China there's a great
story how it was founded the man who
founded it he was head of the physiology
department of Hong Kong University sir
Lindsay Tasman ride a Great Australian
in that country's proud history he was
absorbed into the British defenses of
Hong Kong and served valiantly but like
so many others he ended up captured and
interred and a prisoner of war camp he
was sent to the one in Shum Shui PO but
he escaped with three others who refer
to him as dock ride and went on to form
the core of this team of Chinese and
British secret agents and for the rest
of the war they carried out all kinds of
amazing feats and were effective at
intelligence gathering through their
three-year and eight month period of
occupation the Japanese met with great
success in convincing the locals that
the British is arrogant snobby
prejudiced and obnoxious as the locals
saw them were far more civilized and
preferable to the Japanese one thing the
local people learn fast was of the
massive corruption of the Japanese
occupiers
from the top down the Japanese occupiers
were greedy and on the take in short
they made the British look great
you know everyone liked the part where
the Japanese put the Westerners in their
place and showed them they weren't so
superior to the Asian man after all many
were quite pleased finally to see the
British and other Westerners humiliated
and made to eat humble pie but other
than this one thing there was little
else to think highly about the Japanese
their occupation of Hong Kong did
nothing except ruin the economy ruin
people's lives and offer up a multitude
of hardships and inconveniences that
many of the older Hong Kong residents
can still remember today other than
commencing the fine tradition of holding
horse races on Sunday there's very
little good that came out of the
three-year eight-month Japanese
occupation we all know how things turn
out in the end as bad as it was it
finally began to wind down and by 1944
when things really started to look
hopeless for Japan the big question
regarding Hong Kong's future was being
discussed at the highest levels of power
it was merely a matter of time before
Japan was slowly squeezed to death
so what would become of Hong Kong there
were two contending ideas floating
around one concern the notion of
returning Hong Kong to China Chiang
kai-shek was the main one championing
this idea would Hong Kong co2 Jung to
China or back to the British in the end
it came down to General Douglas
MacArthur to decide unilaterally what
the course of action should be it was
decided that Hong Kong would go back to
Britain and things would pick up where
they left off before Japan invaded hong
kong franklin roosevelt's when he was
alive had felt it was appropriate for
hong kong to be returned to Chinese
sovereignty and had even promised Madame
Chiang kai-shek so Mei Ling that he
supported this view john kai-shek have
received so many positive signals from
the
work inside indicating that Hong Kong
would revert to China this was a pretty
big deal going on behind the scenes
there was plenty of momentum to handing
Hong Kong back to China along with a
general settlement that included
Singapore as well but towards the end of
the war
John kai-shek's regime had been
sufficiently discredit enough mostly
through his own doing so that the
Americans and British weren't so sure he
was going to come out on top when all
was said and done and so with this in
mind and Harry Truman now in charge in
the White House
all of a sudden given Hong Kong back to
the Republic of China and the KMT
doesn't seem like such a good idea more
and more it was looking like the KMT
wasn't gonna be the guys in control the
idea to return to the pre December 1941
status quo ultimately won out
here he Truman I'm sure many of you
China hands out there know he was the
guy who used to call Chiang kai-shek
cash my check he was not what you'd call
a big-time Jang supporter with FDR gone
and Truman now in the Oval Office Hong
Kong's fate was sealed it would remain
as a colony of Great Britain when it
came time for the Japanese to surrender
admiral sessile Harcourts he of Harcourt
Road and Harcourt garden Fame rushed
back to Hong Kong from Sydney Australia
so that he could be the one on behalf of
the British to accept the surrender of
the Japanese as I mentioned Franklin
Charles Gibson was doing a fine job
filling in for the chief executive until
someone arrived on the scene well on
August 30th 1945 Harcourt arrived on the
scene sailing into Hong Kong harbor on
the HMS Swiftsure
by this time the population of Hong Kong
had dropped to some 600,000 so many
hundreds of thousands had been sent back
across the border to China so the place
had been emptied out quite a bit but it
isn't gonna stay that way for long
Governor Mark young returned to work on
May 1st 1946 he had experienced no small
amount of suffering during the
occupation at first the Japanese hold
him up at the peninsula but he along
with general Maltby ultimately got sent
to Stanley prison which had been
converted into a massive internment camp
the Japanese were known to shuffle these
VIP prisoners of war like governor Jung
to different camps in China and also in
Japan when the war ended
governor Jung was housed in a Pio wkm in
Shenyang also known as Mukden where in
September 1931 these fourteen years of
horror and hardship began between Japan
and China governor Jung wasn't killed
but he did suffer terribly at the hands
of his Japanese captors who quite
enjoyed putting such a high-ranking
Western person in his place and making
him suffer all manners of humiliation
and degradation when the nightmare ended
in August 1945 Jung was sent back to
Britain to recuperate and as I said by
May the following year he was back in
the governor's mansion one of the first
things Jung tried to champion after he
got back to work was the matter of
directly electing members to the
Legislative Council that didn't go too
well
he in 1946-47 the civil war between the
Nationalists and the Communists had
resumed and the feeling at the time was
directly electing members to let go
would run the risk that one day the
Communists would be able to manipulate
the voting in Hong Kong so this never
gained any traction and remains even
today in post 1997 Hong Kong a heated
issue and this also might be a reason
why Sir mark didn't get any of the
particular honours usually accorded to a
Hong Kong governor almost everyone got a
street a garden and a statue up here or
a public meeting place named after them
except for the second governor Robinson
the last governor and current chairman
of the BBC trust the Lord
patent of Barnes aka Chris Patten in
this governor Sir Mark Addison young
well you all know the story Japanese
Germans Italians lost the war there were
trials executions and Justice meted out
here and there we'll leave all those
details for Ray Harris to narrate and
explain as far as Hong Kong goes
Lieutenant General Takeshi Sakai who
prevailed as the victor of the Battle of
Hong Kong and who later served as the
Hong Kong governor during the occupation
the guy who accepted the British
surrender on the third floor of the
peninsula he was executed by a firing
squad on September 30th 1946 Prince
ookay he saw guyy the same war tribunal
that meted out justice to takashi Sakai
sentenced general ren tsuki isogai ii to
life in prison he served six years of
this sentence and was then sent back to
japan and he died in 1967 with
everything that had just happened in
hong kong from the destruction of the
financial system to the basic nuts and
bolts of everyday buying and selling the
entrepreneurs businessmen skilled
workers day laborers and investors from
all over saw opportunity with everything
that needed fixing like everything it
was slow at first but once the colony
got off its knees there was no stopping
the place the post-war recovery was very
quick this was due to the
industriousness of the Hong Kong people
and the policies of the government that
guided Hong Kong through these boom
years we'll see as Hong Kong sees this
explosive growth when disasters hit
China like the Great Leap Forward and
the later famine once again the
desperate will seek greener pastures in
Hong Kong and it's the post-war years
where we will pick up next time and part
8 of this Hong Kong history series that
so far has no end I'm gonna take this
all the way until 1997 before we call it
quits then I have an idea for a next
series but I will not divulge it at this
time this is the last program for 2012
taken a bit of an extended time off not
too long maybe a couple weeks or so
I just got the call last night to go
visit the head office and Inc Baugh in
January so I'm mulling that over right
now those of you who actually listen to
this podcast from my website you see I
have a brand new design now new theme
new layout and two new pages I've added
a page that lists every single one of
the links that I lose low Montgomery
personally recommend to any
self-respecting China specialist these
are links to China related news and
information sites blogs that I
particularly find interesting and a few
odds and ends that are sure the cut as
they say north of the Yangtze if anyone
has any personal recommendations for
China blogs or websites that deserve
inclusion to this list drop me a line I
also have a page where I will post
whatever articles videos or whatever
that feature your humble narrator I have
a couple articles and a video of yours
truly appearing on Guangdong TVs
FaceTime program that aired November
10th 2012 not that I have time to do
anything with it yet but I now have a
China history podcast Facebook page to
complement my Twitter feed all three
hundred and something of you who follow
me know I don't waste words only if I
have something to say do I send out any
tweets no frivolous tweets from me ever
if I may there is a fantastic article in
the December 22nd Economist written by
one of my favorites writer Gatti Epstein
his piece about some children is
excellent
I haven't featured seongjo ran on this
podcast although we've mentioned him
I'll put a link on the website and
encourage you to read this one it's
called the death of a revolutionary the
song of song Gotti Epstein ladies and
gentlemen The Economist I also have a
YouTube channel up and running I will
have all episodes uploaded and maybe
some interesting extras but honestly I'm
running a little faster than usual these
days so I just barely have time to keep
this little
chyna history podcast thing going from
episode to episode
so fiddling with all my other social
media I'm not sure how much I'll be able
to do with it in the short term but
we'll see lots of changes coming in 2013
so who knows
this is Lazlo Montgomery come to you
from the new and improved China history
podcast calm now with a faster and
bigger server it's Christmas time here
too everyone in the China history
podcast community around the world in 60
countries and Counting
this is Lazlo Montgomery coming to you
from the town of Claremont California on
the very edge of Los Angeles County
wishing you a happy in a Merry Christmas
and have a safe and happy new year take
care everyone